permethrin is the first line of defense
for all outdoor enthusiasts so whether
you're hiking camping hunting fishing or
traveling abroad you should always apply
permethrin to your clothing a year as
the primary insect repellant before
heading out our special formula is the
only odorless in the longest-lasting 4
method on the market and it's been
exclusively treating uniforms for the US
and Canadian military for almost 30
years
permethrin is a synthetic version of
naturally occurring pyrethrin which
comes from the chrysanthemum flower it
repels and kills mosquitoes ticks
chiggers and biting flies and over 55
other kinds of insects where permethrin
is completely odorless and invisible
after it's dry it's just as effective as
using 100 percent DEET and one
application can last up to 42 days of
outdoor exposure or through 6 washings
our crema therm comes in various sizes a
24 hour sugar spray that can treat four
complete outfits which is the best value
for your money a 12 ounce trigger spray
that can treat 2 complete outfits and a
9-ounce aerosol spray in a complete
outfit consists in the shirt pants and
pair of socks and each garment needs
three ounces of permethrin to be
effective permethrin is safe and
compatible with almost all fabrics but
it will have an easier time binding soft
fabrics like cotton ease rolls and
synthetic blends will have a harder time
buying you the fabrics with tighter
woven fibers like rain flies and
waterproof shells now I'm going to show
you how to apply the permethrin first
you're gonna want to select an outdoor
area or a garage that shielded from the
wind give the bottle a good shake and
then lightly moisten the fabric of the
garment with a slow sweeping motion
keeping the bottle about six to eight
inches away a good rule of thumb is to
treat each side of the garment for about
30 seconds let the garments air dry for
two hours then you want protection for
42 days of UV exposure or six washings
whichever comes first now I know you're
probably wondering what if my shirt is
larger than the average
shirt well that doesn't matter whether
you're a small or at four XL what
matters is the number of molecules
applied to your garment and three ounces
of formula contains enough to method
molecules to be effective however the
more molecules you apply the more
protection you will have your tent has a
larger surface area in your campsite so
spray your tent with permethrin to help
keep the bugs out of your tent and out
of your campsite treat your camp chairs
or patio furniture backpacks for more
protection while hiking no bugs bandanas
hats sleeping bags and sleeping bag
liners make sure you also treat your
camo as per method is completely
odorless and you want to bring home a
trophy not the ticks the great thing
about permethrin is it follows you as
you're moving
unlike stationary repellents that have
to saturate the area before they start
working I don't have to worry about
harming my gear permethrin is not a
plasticizer so treat your fishing vest
people have a lot of questions when
using pur method for the first time so
I'm going to answer a few of those
frequently asked questions dear Amy is
permethrin harmful to my skin
sincerely woods you Whitney no
permethrin is not harmful to the skin
it's just not effective on the skin
dear Amy what's with all the warnings on
the box sincerely backwoods Brian the
warnings on the Box are primarily to
protect you during the application there
are dispersants in the formula that give
it a nice even coat as you apply it you
don't want to nao those dispersants so
make sure you apply permethrin in a
well-ventilated area after its applied
there's nothing to worry about dear Amy
can a treat a garment touch my skin
sincerely campfire Casey yes a treated
garment can touch your skin and it is
not harmful to the body as you know
permethrin was developed for the
military and therefore the label claims
are derived from the military since
military undergarments consisted of
underwear and a white t-shirt soldiers
were instructed not to treat their
undergarments with permethrin because
those items would be concealed by their
uniform and therefore not effective dear
Amy is there anything that permethrin
can harm sincerely fly-fishing Freddy
yes permethrin in its liquid form is
harmful to cats cover when it's dry it's
completely safe but permethrin is not
harmful to dogs and in fact it is used
in many tick treatments it is also
harmful to fish and other aquatic
organisms so do not apply for methane
directly in the washing machine and do
not dump excess permethrin down the
drain or in a river once it's dry and
your clothing is bonded to the fabric
much like the coloring on your clothing
and it will not come off in a river or a
lake